README.md, before:

# 391 Little Coding Katas

> Latest addition :sparkles: [maxMealPrepTasks](./ruby/max-meal-prep-tasks) - Using ruby to solve the meal preparation problem; cassidoo's interview question of the week (2025-11-24). We're trying to find the maximum number of tasks we can handle serially .. sounds like a production planning problem to me!

Like many programmers, I have a folder that I've been carrying around for years
into which I've squirrelled away all manner of tests, notes, tips and tricks. Occasionally I've thought about
making the repo public, but as-is, it's a real grab-bag of semi-intelligible snippets
and I can't be sure just how much confidential info may be in there.

So I decided to start again here, and hopefully rebuild a more useful collection in the open by
applying a similar discipline to how I've been building up my [LittleArduinoProjects](https://github.com/tardate/LittleArduinoProjects)
collection of microcontroller and electronics projects.

So here goes..

To be precise, the purpose of this repo is to collect my programming exercises, research and code toys
broadly spanning things that relate to programming and software development (that includes languages, frameworks and tools).

These may range from the trivial to the complex and serious. Many will be inspired by existing work and I'll note the credits
and references where applicable. And it will appear quite scatter-brained, as I variously work on things new and important in the moment,
or go back to revisit things from the past.

This is primarily a personal collection for my own edification and learning, but anyone who stumbles by is welcome to borrow, steal
or reference the work here. And if you spot errors or issues I'd really appreciate some feedback - create an issue, send me an email
or even send a pull-request.

## Project Index

LittleCodingKata has a new catalog/web site!
It's actually just simple static site sitting right on top of this repository and served by Netlify. Try it out:

[![lck-splash](./catalog/assets/images/lck-splash.png?raw=true)](https://codingkata.tardate.com/)

Commit message:

[ruby/html-color-sort] add notes (#321)
* [ruby/html-color-sort] add notes

Signed-off-by: Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>

* add to catalog

Signed-off-by: Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>

* tidy notes

Signed-off-by: Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>

* tidy notes

Signed-off-by: Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# 392 Little Coding Katas

> Latest addition :sparkles: [Sorting HTML Colors](./ruby/html-color-sort) - Using ruby to sort HTML Colors; cassidoo's interview question of the week (2025-12-01). But with one hand tied behind your back ... no built-in sorting methods allowed! I compare an intuitive insertion sort with a merge sort and benchmark the difference.

Like many programmers, I have a folder that I've been carrying around for years
into which I've squirrelled away all manner of tests, notes, tips and tricks. Occasionally I've thought about
making the repo public, but as-is, it's a real grab-bag of semi-intelligible snippets
and I can't be sure just how much confidential info may be in there.

So I decided to start again here, and hopefully rebuild a more useful collection in the open by
applying a similar discipline to how I've been building up my [LittleArduinoProjects](https://github.com/tardate/LittleArduinoProjects)
collection of microcontroller and electronics projects.

So here goes..

To be precise, the purpose of this repo is to collect my programming exercises, research and code toys
broadly spanning things that relate to programming and software development (that includes languages, frameworks and tools).

These may range from the trivial to the complex and serious. Many will be inspired by existing work and I'll note the credits
and references where applicable. And it will appear quite scatter-brained, as I variously work on things new and important in the moment,
or go back to revisit things from the past.

This is primarily a personal collection for my own edification and learning, but anyone who stumbles by is welcome to borrow, steal
or reference the work here. And if you spot errors or issues I'd really appreciate some feedback - create an issue, send me an email
or even send a pull-request.

## Project Index

LittleCodingKata has a new catalog/web site!
It's actually just simple static site sitting right on top of this repository and served by Netlify. Try it out:

[![lck-splash](./catalog/assets/images/lck-splash.png?raw=true)](https://codingkata.tardate.com/)
