catalog/README.md, before:

# The Catalog

This is a simple Javascript catalog for building the
[LittleCodingKata GitHub Pages site](http://codingkata.tardate.com).

It is a simple bootstrap/datatables page with the main entry point in [index.html](../index.html).
Catalog data is loaded from [catalog.json](./catalog.json), which is consolidated from `.catalog_metadata` I've added to each project.

I use two utility scripts:

* [init_catalog_metadata.py](./init_catalog_metadata.py) - used for the initial conversion from the table in the README.md
* [update_catalog.py](./update_catalog.py) - rebuilds the catalog.json when I add a project or change project metadata.


## Hosting

I'm using GitHub Pages to run the catalog site directly from the LittleCodingKata repo.

How does that work? GitHub Pages basically serves whatever you put on the gh-pages branch of the repo.
For static HTML sites, that means simply adding an `index.html` to the root of the repo.

To host on a custom URL, just two steps:

* in DNS, configure a CNAME to point to <username>.github.io
* add a CNAME file to the repo root with the matching CNAME in DNS (GitHub does this for you automatically if you add the custom url in the web interface)

By default, GitHub will make a detached gh-pages branch (if you use the web tools to turn on pages).

I have gh-pages on the same mainline as my master branch, which means the pages site has direct access to all the images and data in the repo.

## Credits and References
* [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/)
* [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)
* [datatables](http://datatables.net/)

Commit message:

[catalog] refactor the catalog maintenance scripts

catalog/README.md, after:

# The Catalog

This is a simple Javascript catalog for building the
[LittleCodingKata GitHub Pages site](http://codingkata.tardate.com).

It is a simple bootstrap/datatables page with the main entry point in [index.html](../index.html).
Catalog data is loaded from [catalog.json](./catalog.json), which is consolidated from `.catalog_metadata` I've added to each project.

The [make.py](./make.py) utility script is used to maintain the catalog:

```
$ catalog/make.py rebuild  # regenerates catalog from the README.md
$ catalog/make.py generate  # builds the catalog from catalog metadata
```


## Hosting

I'm using GitHub Pages to run the catalog site directly from the LittleCodingKata repo.

How does that work? GitHub Pages basically serves whatever you put on the gh-pages branch of the repo.
For static HTML sites, that means simply adding an `index.html` to the root of the repo.

To host on a custom URL, just two steps:

* in DNS, configure a CNAME to point to <username>.github.io
* add a CNAME file to the repo root with the matching CNAME in DNS (GitHub does this for you automatically if you add the custom url in the web interface)

By default, GitHub will make a detached gh-pages branch (if you use the web tools to turn on pages).

I have gh-pages on the same mainline as my master branch, which means the pages site has direct access to all the images and data in the repo.

## Credits and References
* [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/)
* [bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)
* [datatables](http://datatables.net/)
