python/yt-md-link/README.md, before:

# #405 YouTube Time-stamped Link Maker

I wanted an easy way to generate markdown links to specific times in YouTube videos, using the actual video title and rendering the time in a more convenient hh:mm:ss format.

## Notes

When making notes for courses, or music study for example, I often want to create markdown links to specific timestamped sections in videos.

Say, for example, I have a link from YouTube like this:

```txt
https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240
```

I'd like to be able to generate a markdown link in a few different formats.

Firstly, a simple markdown link using the actual video title, and the timestamp in "hh:mm:ss" instead of total seconds, i.e.:

```md
[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

Or sometimes, substituting my own title text e.g.

```md
[Custom Title Text (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

Or finally, as a video image link e.g.

```md
[![LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

### Generated Links

Using the script [yt-md-link.py](./yt-md-link.py) in the various ways...

#### Simple Link with the Actual Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240"
[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

#### Simple Link with a Custom Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240" -t "Custom Title"
[Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

#### Image Link with the Actual Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240" -i
[![LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[![LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

#### Image Link with a Custom Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240" -i -t "Custom Title"
[![Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[![Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

### The Script

The final version of the script [yt-md-link.py](./yt-md-link.py) is listed below.

It requires <https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp> to get the video title.
As I'm running on macOS, I installed this with homebrew `brew install yt-dlp`.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
"""
Turns a YouTube URL with timestamp into a Markdown link
"""

import argparse
import sys
import re
import subprocess
import urllib.parse

def parse_timestamp(url: str) -> str:
    parsed = urllib.parse.urlparse(url)
    qs = urllib.parse.parse_qs(parsed.query)
    t_str = qs.get("t", [None])[0] or re.search(r"[?&]t=(\d+)s?", url)
    if t_str is None:
        raise ValueError("No timestamp found in URL")
    if isinstance(t_str, str):          # came from query string
        seconds = int(t_str)
    else:                               # came from regex
        seconds = int(t_str.group(1))

    hh, mm = divmod(seconds, 3600)
    mm, ss = divmod(mm, 60)
    marker = f"{hh:02d}:{mm:02d}:{ss:02d}"
    return marker

def get_title(url: str) -> str:
    try:
        title = subprocess.check_output(
            ["yt-dlp", "--get-title", "--no-warnings", url],
            text=True
        ).strip()
        return title
    except Exception as e:
        raise RuntimeError(f"yt-dlp failed: {e}")

def get_video_id(url: str) -> str:
      video_id_match = re.search(r"(?:v=|youtu\.be/)([a-zA-Z0-9_-]{11})", url)
      if not video_id_match:
        sys.exit("Error: Could not extract video ID from URL")
      video_id = video_id_match.group(1)
      return video_id

def main() -> None:
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(prog="yt-md-link.py", description="Turn a YouTube URL with timestamp into a Markdown link or image.")
    parser.add_argument("url", help="YouTube URL with timestamp")
    parser.add_argument("-t", "--title", help="Override fetched title", metavar="STRING")
    parser.add_argument("-i", "--image", action="store_true", help="Output image markdown instead of a link")
    args = parser.parse_args()

    try:
      marker = parse_timestamp(args.url)
    except Exception as e:
      sys.exit(f"Error parsing timestamp: {e}")

    try:
      title = args.title if args.title is not None else get_title(args.url)
    except Exception as e:
      sys.exit(f"Error getting title: {e}")

    if args.image:
      video_id = get_video_id(args.url)
      print(f"[![{title} ({marker})](https://img.youtube.com/vi/{video_id}/0.jpg)]({args.url})")
    else:
      print(f"[{title} ({marker})]({args.url})")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```

## Credits and References

* <https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp>

Commit message:

[yt-md-link] timestamp is optional
Signed-off-by: Paul Gallagher <gallagher.paul@gmail.com>

python/yt-md-link/README.md, after:

# #405 YouTube Time-stamped Link Maker

I wanted an easy way to generate markdown links to specific times in YouTube videos, using the actual video title and rendering the time in a more convenient hh:mm:ss format.

## Notes

When making notes for courses, or music study for example, I often want to create markdown links to specific timestamped sections in videos.

Say, for example, I have a link from YouTube like this:

```txt
https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240
```

I'd like to be able to generate a markdown link in a few different formats.

Firstly, a simple markdown link using the actual video title, and the timestamp in "hh:mm:ss" instead of total seconds, i.e.:

```md
[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

Or sometimes, substituting my own title text e.g.

```md
[Custom Title Text (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

Or finally, as a video image link e.g.

```md
[![LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

### Generated Links

Using the script [yt-md-link.py](./yt-md-link.py) in the various ways...

#### Simple Link with the Actual Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240"
[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

Note: if there's no timestamp in the video link, it just renders the plain link:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv"
[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv)

#### Simple Link with a Custom Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240" -t "Custom Title"
[Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

#### Image Link with the Actual Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240" -i
[![LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[![LIV MOON - THE WINTER (VIVALDI FOUR SEASONS) (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

#### Image Link with a Custom Title

Invocation:

```sh
$ ./yt-md-link.py "https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240" -i -t "Custom Title"
[![Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)
```

The markdown renders as follows:

[![Custom Title (00:04:00)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ky2z2mMQO40/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/ky2z2mMQO40?si=ek-z2G0Rpv0Uz4fv&t=240)

### The Script

The final version of the script [yt-md-link.py](./yt-md-link.py) is listed below.

It requires <https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp> to get the video title.
As I'm running on macOS, I installed this with homebrew `brew install yt-dlp`.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
"""
Turns a YouTube URL with timestamp into a Markdown link
"""

import argparse
import sys
import re
import subprocess
import urllib.parse

def parse_timestamp(url: str) -> str:
    parsed = urllib.parse.urlparse(url)
    qs = urllib.parse.parse_qs(parsed.query)
    t_str = qs.get("t", [None])[0] or re.search(r"[?&]t=(\d+)s?", url)
    if t_str is None:
        raise ValueError("No timestamp found in URL")
    if isinstance(t_str, str):          # came from query string
        seconds = int(t_str)
    else:                               # came from regex
        seconds = int(t_str.group(1))

    hh, mm = divmod(seconds, 3600)
    mm, ss = divmod(mm, 60)
    marker = f"{hh:02d}:{mm:02d}:{ss:02d}"
    return marker

def get_title(url: str) -> str:
    try:
        title = subprocess.check_output(
            ["yt-dlp", "--get-title", "--no-warnings", url],
            text=True
        ).strip()
        return title
    except Exception as e:
        raise RuntimeError(f"yt-dlp failed: {e}")

def get_video_id(url: str) -> str:
      video_id_match = re.search(r"(?:v=|youtu\.be/)([a-zA-Z0-9_-]{11})", url)
      if not video_id_match:
        sys.exit("Error: Could not extract video ID from URL")
      video_id = video_id_match.group(1)
      return video_id

def main() -> None:
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(prog="yt-md-link.py", description="Turn a YouTube URL with timestamp into a Markdown link or image.")
    parser.add_argument("url", help="YouTube URL with timestamp")
    parser.add_argument("-t", "--title", help="Override fetched title", metavar="STRING")
    parser.add_argument("-i", "--image", action="store_true", help="Output image markdown instead of a link")
    args = parser.parse_args()

    try:
      marker = parse_timestamp(args.url)
    except Exception as e:
      sys.exit(f"Error parsing timestamp: {e}")

    try:
      title = args.title if args.title is not None else get_title(args.url)
    except Exception as e:
      sys.exit(f"Error getting title: {e}")

    if args.image:
      video_id = get_video_id(args.url)
      print(f"[![{title} ({marker})](https://img.youtube.com/vi/{video_id}/0.jpg)]({args.url})")
    else:
      print(f"[{title} ({marker})]({args.url})")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```

## Credits and References

* <https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp>
